{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red221\green221\blue221;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\fs20 Tag System is to be alphabetical in order for optimization (both data structure or array and the tag usage/interpreter), so add a ordering\par
Or just execute through separate data structures for each tag\par
\par
UI ideas from Zerospace:\par
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z7VUZAuVw0k \par
\par
Physics based projectiles and weaponry should target enemy blobs of grouped units, rather than individual units\par
\par
Overhaul selection to be on the GUI side, not unit side (so instead of local select variables, it will be in a ds list or something)\par
\par
Porting GameMaker to Godot\par
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ve0PAxQj1Vs\par
https://github.com/coppolaemilio/gamemaker-godot-dictionary \par
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g2cDrSa4FAM\par
\par
EVENT INHERITED uses the OBJECT CALLING THE EVENT,\par
NOT THE INSTANCE\par
\par
ie templates can have parents!\par
ie\par
unit has template\par
template has event inherited\par
template parent does the event inherited, not the unit parent\par
(confirmed by Visual Novel RTS test)\par
\par
Sprite Import from Heros Hour\par
remove background\par
Stretch to half/50%, Excellent\par
Stretch to 33%, Excellent\par
\par
Custom Sprite Framework Documentation:\par
https://github.com/GameMakerDiscord/custom-sprite-framework/wiki \par
\par
File Sanboxing (turn off in Game Options for Studio 2, must use working_directory for Studio 1 to write, or Included Files directory for modding maybe):\par
https://manual.gamemaker.io/monthly/en/Additional_Information/The_File_System.htm\par
Included Files only seem to work with Installer packages, not normal exe\par
\par
Well, apparently, I already own the Non-Sandboxed File System extension (nsfs)\par
\par
Units and Entities have Templates\par
Units and Entities can have Multiple Templates? (For example, attaching a radar to multiple units or structures)\par
Templates can have Templates? (multiple parent logic, amkes sure no conflict)\par
Templates never appear in-game, only Units/Entities\par
You attach as many Templates you want to the single Faction Unit/Entity, then build said Unit\par
\par
So there is a:\par
Soldier Template\par
Infantry Template\par
Rifle Template\par
Faction 1 Unit\par
\par
Health Template\par
Health Regen Template\par
\par
The Infantry Template is attached to the Soldier Template\par
The Rifle Template is attached to the Soldier Template\par
So 2 Templates are attached to the Soldier Template\par
The Soldier Template is attached to the Faction 1 Unit\par
Faction 1 Unit is built, and it shows up as a Faction 1 Soldier Unit\par
\par
When to use templates, and when to use code?\par
If at any time that any detection is necessary for a category to collate units in a list, and also requires specific variables that apply to more than just one unit, then use a template.\par
For example, if I ever need a detection list of all units with veterancy, and also veterancy has a set of specific variables, then that is a template.\par
\par
So these wouldn't be full templates, then. More like a state machine of sorts.\par
For multiple templates, make a map or list or something. (DONE)\par
\par
Templates and parenting\par
Templates add their parent template to the list in the Create Event\par
No event inherited in Create Event because unit_template_add handles that\par
\par
Going back  to the Faction 1 Soldier Unit\par
\par
There are also:\par
Health Template\par
Health Regen Template (requires Health Template)\par
\par
Health Template is attached to Soldier at Create Event\par
Soldier is wounded\par
Medic targets those with Health Templates\par
Well, a medic gives a regeneration shot to the Soldier as it has a Health Template\par
The regeneration shot attaches a Health Regen Template on the Soldier\par
\par
If the Soldier does not have Health Template\par
If for some reason the regeneration shot hits the Soldier and succeeds\par
The regeneration shot will first apply the Health Template before applying the Health Regen Template\par
\par
\par
Unit Icons (like above the unit as in Inky Darkness) are important for readability. Shattered Paradise (Open RA Tib Sun mod) has bad readability, need big icons. Supcom has icons showing up on minimap, not just the game. I think.\par
\par
Should weapons and resources be templates? Should the base unit be a template for entities?\par
Eventually, templates will also be loaded as mods.\par
\par
Remember that instance_change and instance_copy exists.\par
\par
Unit Step Order:\par
Target Detection\par
Movement\par
Attack\par
Collision Detection\par
\par
Or should one use alarms for both attack and target detection?\par
\par
Squad Layer?\par
\par
Terrain Tile System\par
tile_layer_find()\par
\par
Replace Alarms with Timelines\par
Should targeting include sides?\par
Tactical Pause but also Tactical Slow Down (as upgrades?)\par
\par
Singletons:\par
Control\par
Targeting\par
\par
Builder:\par
\par
AI Automation: For whole proactive armies and squads, not just units reacting. Rallying, etc. Like an optional autobattler.\par
\par
Templates - collections that contain events code in Create, Step, Draw, Destroy, etc and also numbered Events, templates are never created in-game, just referenced\par
Units - have a list of templates (can be a template themselves?) and is a state machine that switches between templates\par
Units usually go through all the list of templates, however, can be changed to not utilize all of a template, just some, using state machine to determine which event code to execute\par
\par
Need a more robust template switching system that prevents parent object type conflicts\par
__________________\par
https://forum.gamemaker.io/index.php?threads/instances-are-state-machines-gmwolf.55454/#post-340642 \par
I was never really told that instance_change was bad, and I've been using GM since 6.1. I would say though I do not use it because instance_create then instance_destroy seems cleaner to me (as some have stated with the clean up states).\par
\par
The first thing I might apply this to is RTS games that have a lot of unit types and terrain types and more than 2 factions, because RTS units if you want a good detection/targeting system either needs multiple parents or instance changing. For example, if you want to target ground infantry units but can't target units of your own side but another side, so you have to cycle through only units of the enemy's side but then you also have to cycle through all infantry units, and all ground units, and some are tanks instead of infantry, and some are flying infantry. So it would be just easier to cycle through by changing all objects to each category. (Yes, you can use "if statements" but that makes the detection algorithm bloated).\par
\par
(Also I realize the above paragraph can be confusing and also possibly inefficient)\par
\par
Weapon mechanics can be inspired by Noita Wand mechanics https://noita.fandom.com/wiki/Guide_To_Wand_Mechanics\par
___________________\par
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kA3AYsx9czU\par
\par
Colony sims have zone commands, like destroy all things in an area, or gather all things in an area\par
Can it be done with dragging right click?\par
Bobby Tech Chaotic Era has clicking on terrain (without selecting first) and getting a menu\par
___________________\par
Limit global powers and passives to an inventory or equip, or need a local structure or representation for area powers (like superweapon structure that affects only an area)\par
For example, detecting mines as a global power should be in an inventory, or need a structure for it for an area (for balance purposes)\par
\par
___________________\par
\par
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VdqhHKjepiE\par
\par
Story Generator first before a game?\par
Kenshi and Rimworld level of sandbox (not Factorio though, that's too much). Ability to buy and sell units (and other things) to market. Territory enforcement by other factions (like taxes).\par
Also AI War and Shadow Empire and Pandemonium\fs24\par
}
 